I started reading Game of Thrones the
books a Song of Ice and Fire
basically during the time of my divorce
you know I remember it struck me I was
in a hotel room when you get divorced
pancit involves a toddler who's now I
said no talking
I totally forgotten about the TV show of
the books it wasn't on my mind and you
know I was in a hotel room and the
packing or unpacking or something and
turned on the TV well as a bed there was
Game of Thrones so I would guess that
was one season three came out or season
yeah something like that what country
were you in I mean that's that's no that
is even harder to say I was probably
Hong Kong which is not really a country
all told but um and it just occurred to
me I thought oh now that I'm divorced I
I couldn't take the time to actually
read these books right never considered
an option before yeah you may also you
may suddenly have a lot more time on
your hands before so yeah and now here I
am with my my girlfriend like five years
later she's off camera none of you can
see how good-looking shoes hi ha ha ha
and she's catching up with me in the
game of Thrones books so I think for
years it has been on my mind to make a
video trying to talk honestly about bad
writing in the Song of Ice and Fire
books in George RR Martin's work and it
I can't really say it's a taboo subject
it's something pretty much every podcast
at some point breaks out in guffaws
about right so Melissa you're not 100%
up to the way all right let's let's
start at the deep end oh yeah no I
okay I was gonna mention some some
shallow shovels oh I want to start with
a really with a really deep one cuz
she's far enough the books to do this
too
okay who paid the cat's paw which is to
say who gave the dagger so that bran
would be assassinated when he was
crippled and why backronym still to this
day people show up at conferences at
work George are Marta speaking and they
say things like you know slight
variation wears
oh I hope in the next book we'll finally
get the
solution to the Kasbah mystery yahoo and
george RR martin says back oh I thought
that already was solved maybe it's
because Tyrion believed it was Joffrey
that or somebody to do that right
Joffrey had access to because it's made
of white Valyrian steel Aryan steel
right
but even commenter Ian's account of it
there were so many holes there were so
many things lacking and there's so many
there are so many things about it that
don't make sense yeah and this is like
the central motivating element or
instigating event for the plot for the
first three books or something right
right yeah Oh Bailey what started the
right the war right so why was this
child assassin no reason why was he
assassinated with a weapon that uniquely
links the murderer to Littlefinger in
Kings Lane no reason he just picked that
one at random he just liked the way look
why was the assassin given a weapon
that's priceless like in the books as
they progress we get the sense dragon
bone and Valyrian steel it's like this
dagger is as expensive as like an army
you know mean it's like it's so
ridiculously valuable no no reason no
and then you know and how is this
resolved you know yeah that's true
that's it I mean I made it up as he went
along
you know that's George RR Martin's
writing method is gardening as he goes
along just you know the story grows in
the telling you know say it's not
applauded out murder mystery he didn't
when he started writing the mystery he
didn't have the end in mind already
so it just kind of fizzles out okay so
you started out this video by talking
about how you were introduced to the
books so I will just say a little bit
the Game of Thrones show came out
structure symmetry listen this go on
yeah when I first started college yeah
yeah started University and I couple of
my friends I think my sophomore year
would always meet up at this one house
one of my friend's house to watch Game
of Thrones and
I was really like auntie Game of Thrones
for no real good reason just because I'm
I'm not usually somebody who watches
mainstream television and I mean not
saying it's just usually I'm not not
into it
whether you're above it or beneath the
your own sight um you know coming from
the background that I have I know some
people may be listening to me that don't
even know who I am don't really know my
background but you know I come from like
more Christian background and like I
always thought of HBO is this really
like pornographic you know like I had
she's not Christian a told herself there
was an adult but that's interesting
terms your upbringing and HBO is the
softcore porn of yeah totally exactly
yeah we didn't have HP and Game of
Thrones in particular is notorious for a
reason this way right yeah right and the
books are not a I mean like the amount
of the amount of on-camera sex in the
book so to speak yes yeah it's true yes
it's not as raunchy as I thought it
would be I mean you did mention the
other day you wouldn't want to be
reading this in front of your parents
like you would like there are some
moments that are like what a lot you
remember sorry this jumping at the John
Beck she was shocked when I pointed out
to her
Dunkin egg that the dunk and egg stories
of the prequels do these huh that there
is an off-camera sex scene that's
alluded to with like one a sentence oh
yeah yeah so most of the sex is like
that in the books
unlike the TV show right yeah so that
was my first impression of Game of
Thrones I thought that it would be you
know basically boobs and Dragons right
swords and stuff
there are boobs in the book I mean it
has to be said maybe all of a pretty
good sense of what George's type is I
don't I don't think George has a lot of
experience alone I really don't know I
got this this is another source of bad
writing against the the author's limited
yes so there was one of my friends the
George Mort Mark George RR Martin's
school of seduction so one of my friends
who went by the name of panda that was
his nickname
so panda was telling me about the books
so he he started with the show and then
he was like oh there are books like I'm
gonna read all the books and they're
really going on to me about how I should
start reading them and really get into
them and the way he was describing it to
me it sounded so dorky I didn't really
read it was like they were dragon yeah
you like yeah he's like it's like it's
like a historical fictional novel but
like all these other things involved
like dragons and you know zombies like
these creatures beyond the walls so yeah
and it's short that was not convincing
to me to get into the books or the show
so I successfully avoided it you know
other like people posting ranked and
that and then she fell in love with the
wrong man you know I got into your
YouTube channel and you like yeah a
video about that was one of the first
kind of non serious or silly things I
had on my channel like before I started
doing Game of Thrones a song by Sapphire
Khan that everything was was pretty
serious
yeah cause I just made you like whether
it was politics or talking about my own
life or whatever yeah that that kind of
changed the tone bama Guanyin well yes
all on my channel you then heard me
talking about yeah I mean I had seen so
many other videos from you beforehand I
was not expecting that I was just you
know you didn't see what good kind of
person that would I don't know what I
thought the kind of person was that got
into Game of Thrones kind of like
already like they go to confession okay
so I drove in here I don't know if she
has more cinnamon but I got a job yeah
you know so heard a podcast recently and
they had new people on the podcast that
like a round table and one of the
questions they asked is who is your
favorite character on Game of Thrones
surely show you in the book song of us
for whatever you know we're talking
about the books year round real-time
with you
who your favorite character in the book
series and you kind of can tell
something about people
and naturally nobody's gonna say like
nobody's gonna say Jon Snow nobody they
all said you know pretty obscure
characters like pretty minor characters
he did memorable things or something but
are just the first thing I thought wow
if that if that was put to me with no
preparation like if I were guests on
this podcast my answer would be Kevan
Lannister
so Kevan Lannister gets one chapter from
his point of view and you haven't gotten
to it yet that's right at the end
okay so right Kevan Lannister is the
prototypical me and old man talking
about politics in the book he's just
like it's that side of those but if you
after you said what kind of person like
him so why would I be the kind of
personal skin drops I'm not into dragons
I'm not into zombies I have other
sources of boobs in my life I'm not
reading the books for erotic interest or
whatever right but to me it's really
moving and really interesting and really
politically stimulating including you
know Kevan Lannister
but Kevan Lannister is he's like for all
this but he is just another guy who sits
there and talks about and reflects on
the political situation but yeah all the
chapters that are mean old men
discussing politics are thrilling to me
and like the childhood perspective of
bran is of no interest none you know the
various female characters you know
teenage girl having her period for the
first time I thought that was well
written by the way and I'm not saying
that was but not what I'm here for you
know what I mean so it is a lot their
terms the the range of life experience
but yeah there's of wine the kind of
person yeah yeah yeah you know I do
understand why you got into it and also
yeah I read it based on your suggestions
like the first book yes right a lot of
chapters are about the young characters
and basically to include them I mean I
do pretty much with all three don't I
know you do three yeah but I started
with all three
so okay this this this podcast that is
about bad writing in chemicals I think
the Duncan Dec novels are exquisitely
well-written I think they were extremely
well-written
the very first of the three stories is a
little bit subtle in its virtues like I
can imagine someone reading and just
seeing what's the big deal but I do
think the first one is also rewarding
but then the next two currently there
are only three they're supposed to be
like seven more but I think that those
are really really well written our a
really good way into the books and I
mean I think you just get the point
there honor and dignity matter and
visibly and invisibly our obligations in
life are linked to politics and trying
to make the world a better place and
what kind of man do you want to be the
the ontic roaring this is real academics
be you know but like the the
sub-basement level structure of what
these books are about philosophically
and politically I think is really set
out for you there in those short stories
and without dragons
you know from also you know what sir
this is another issue in in the books of
Hall is they're not from an aristocratic
point of view I mean dump is not at the
top of the social hierarchy he's pretty
close to the bottom so you also get a
bit more of a peasant's view on this
world and on why these these political
issues yeah I'm sorry I did jump in did
you want us a little bit more about
about your first discovery of the books
and moist every the morning well yeah
obviously I started reading them because
you would read them and you you said I
should read the Duncan I have Duncan
yeah that that's what I read first and
then I started reading the the first
book at your recommendation I skipped
quite a few of the chapters she skimmed
some of you volume cuz it's just a lot
there this Isabel bad writer right okay
but let's be real this is like what I
said with the murder mystery there's all
kinds of crap in the first book that
goes nowhere and that reflects the fact
that this was an improv that's why the
first book is only were saying when you
are reading the first book as it is
today in many ways
you're reading a first draft not just a
first book right oh um what about all
the religions that are really important
by book 5 or book 7 or whatever you want
to say they're not in there no man no
but it's like no that that world
building to go on um what about the
board game called sigh bass what about
the literal and figurative Game of
Thrones called sigh bass that turns up
in like the very last volume as they're
currently it might be in the last
chapter of peaceful forget like at the
very end it's like oh oh yeah yeah yeah
the Game of Thrones it's an actual game
and it in a really meaningful way shows
you the differences in character between
like Tyrion and you this princess from
Dorne and a bunch of other contrasts and
Tyrion and the self swords they play the
game step oh it's it's super meaningful
but it's not in its Oh
how about the whole prehistory that that
is in the third Duncan it's egg story of
the blacks versus the Reds this civil
war then in many ways set the stage and
set up the whole subplot with Aegon and
what varies and Illyrio mopatis our play
well not there like there's so much
that's missing that should be there in
volume 1 as it's never in the game girls
and there's so much crap there that is
meaningless and is going nowhere it
means nothing okay
and and I want to say this straight up
to your face Internet I'm saying this to
your face Internet volume 1 is badly
written okay
why definition of bad writing when
things happen so the plot can progress
and for no other reason okay uh we're
gonna do the great ranging at the wall
we're gonna round up a bunch of guys and
March why
so so the plot can progress how are we
gonna win okay so now we're at Craster's
keep so you don't even army this is a
contingent the great ranging the whole
of the Nights Watch is massively
undermanned that aren't enough men to
lose anybody
this shouldn't be risking anyone's life
they stopped the Craster's keep crashed
her and the old bear
Craster and the the lurched manner that
I watch they sit down they think let's
break it down there were a million
wildlings there is the largest army of
human beings the North has ever known
has been amassed by Mance Rayder if you
bump into them every single one of you
will die oh yeah you know what else is
going on the others and this army of ice
zombies that's all so if you bump into
them every single woman will die yeah
hmm well let's keep going north yeah
wait what are you trying to accomplish
you know there's nothing there for you
to conquer it's not like you're trying
to occupy and conquer a foreign city
there is no objective there is nothing
it's not even like you're inviting Mance
Rayder to negotiate a peace treaty there
was absolutely nothing that Vienna and
all of you are gonna die and you've
confirmed that explicitly in the meeting
and discussion to crash with you why are
you gonna keep going well well there's a
there's an author and there's a plot cuz
this isn't it's garbage writing okay
okay wait wait but it gets worse mmm
so pour in half hand ya comes back to
the OSI she's read it recently she
remembers all these obscure names of his
people who he's the guy who comes back
to the wall and as soon as he shows up
so he's just gotten back to the wall
it's like oh let's let's go raging in
the north and kill some random wildlings
and let's take Jon Snow with us why no
reason oh hey you're Jon Snow hey you're
you're Vegas 14 you're like right right
with no skills like oh yeah we're
putting together a unit of like the
hardest dudes in the Knights walk one of
them has a name like stone snake but
yeah me and scoring half an and stone
snake and like whatever the other guy's
name is like you
a speeder or some crap no no the
wildlings okay that's where the bones
another good way yeah yeah we got these
like hard men from the Nights Watch
we're gonna go up and like rape and
murder some random wildlings because
that's what we do no moral comment um so
let's just have Jon Snow join us
Oh woah he's like in the stewards guild
he's not a ranger and he's like your
work and we're undermanned and we're
supposed to be fighting that luck and
and it what why do you want plot the
Lord Commander says to him directly but
if you if you do this you're all gonna
die like you're just you're just gonna
die oh well you know nobody lives
forever with that's the actual there's
no objective what are you gonna
accomplish going you're nothing you're
all gonna die we need every man we can
get we're critically undermanned we're
in the middle of a war and again there's
no strategy it's not like there's a
peace treaty coming with maths no no war
on an unbelievable scale with both the
largest army of humans and the unlimited
army of zombie okay by that okay John go
join oh yeah I hope you meet Benjamin in
your watery grave yeah yeah maybe I'll
bump into uncle Bayesian on your way to
your death like it makes no sense it's
so stupid it's so unbelievably dumb that
is bad writing and there's there's no
way you can like symbolically interpret
and be like oh well you know
telepathically
bloodraven was manipulating them or jaja
and could see the future no it's just
bad writing so and volume one has a lot
of that they only want to talk about one
one I want to talk about the events of
the more recent novels because volume
one is not that interesting but volume
one if you actually go back and look at
it with the level of scrutiny that you
have for the later volumes it is badly
ready well I remember when I first
started reading it I was really
impressed with the forward or like the
very first part
yes that's beautifully written yeah the
prologue when they find the wolves the
wolf pups like you know like some of
some chapters I think
sure no no sure sure sure looking at it
in isolation I remember feeling so the
prologue that's when we first see the
others north of the wall yeah and you
know the quality of writing there just
the description of the trees the trees
with their icy fingers against the sky
and I really felt it that as soon as we
got to chapter one or two the quality of
writing went down it's like oh I see
yeah you can't do like a 3,000 page book
and have that level of I've really liked
the epilogues and prologues
yes that's right there's a little more
care with the language yeah and it's
usually like people that we don't know
right now it's right right I mean George
so George was a short story writer and
most a novella writer yeah and he wrote
scripts for all it would you know number
of pages in a script is not is not that
long and yeah there's a certain beauty
to it short stories like that well I
think I mean these novels they really
are like a series of short stories I
mean so everyone said that but I mean
you know like so you have that epilogue
or that prologue and it kind of works as
a short story unto itself
yeah and then you get links together
this series of somewhat disjointed short
stories sure yeah you guys can tell even
this criticism you can tell like in many
ways I appreciate George and is writing
and I love the books but there is a lot
of bad writing in it for me like a
ragequit moment forgetting that this was
the first time I went through the books
of the second because I think I'm
remembering it from like the second or
third time let's err not all of it have
it read three times but the later books
feast dance I've definitely done three
times but I remember when Sam gets the
old town oh my god so we have as readers
we have no interest in old town it is
just another town on the map it's not
like oh great with all this
foreshadowing I'm really interested to
have a detailed description of old town
and it's like toward the end of a three
thousand dollars like okay guys I'm now
gonna explain to you what the market
looks like and
bridge looks like and the cobblestones
and the architecture and you're gonna
get a guided tour there's this tower and
this is some history behind the tower
it's like my dude if this was in volume
one within the first 200 pages of volume
one okay like we all signed up for that
like if you start a new novel you start
a new story the first let's see I don't
even remember the first description of
King's Landing probably was like that
when the stark family arrives and stick
King's Landing and it smells bad and
whatever okay fine the first description
of Winterfell
fine but like dude you are Swift the
volumes into this there's nothing
interesting about it
the description of old town is an old
town there is absolutely nothing
interesting about the description of old
town as Sam is on his way to sit alone
yeah it's a little much but you know
this is coming from somebody who has
read all of the Lord of the Rings books
yeah that was another level of
description and just too much do you
feel you accept that because I know it
for me if the description serves no
purpose yeah I know I own that way I'm
sorry I'm just not remembering where she
is right now but wherever Arya is and
doing the story right now like she knows
you from yeah when she arrived there I
felt like there were like just wait
right the description was too much you
know I mean it could have been condensed
into maybe one voyage or two pages but I
don't know it it was a little much I
know I know he's introducing a new place
but yeah but why I mean that's that's
ultimately the question like what you
know I mean it in terms the original
plan of the books we got a lot of
description of the horselords the
Dothraki in their society yes and it's
clear the original plan of the books was
okay we get this foreshadowing set up we
learn about their society and then a
large part of the book is gonna be them
arriving in Westeros you know we're
running Westeros and how everything
changes yeah when Westeros is conquered
by a bunch of horse tornado variants is
that what the books are about anymore
like is that I mean is that still gonna
happen you know maybe you know maybe
Daenerys comes over but it now seems
like
my inner thing now it's like oh no no we
have all this description of the Iron
Islands and the Iron Islands and like
the religious themes attached to your on
Greyjoy who wasn't even a character in
like the first three books or something
like you know he was just one more
branch and a family truck oh no no this
is what's really important is like the
religion of the Iron Islands let you
know okay is that the major like
symbolic political and moral conflict or
not you know yeah I think you told me
that it has the world record for number
of characters yes series and that I
don't really accept that and most of the
time when I'm reading about the
descriptions of the horse like it's the
horses families like I just I just
turned out you know like I try to read
what information is relevant but that's
like you know I don't need to know the
whole family tree for every single
character yeah okay look I mean I I'd
like I appreciate the imaginative Ness
the creativity but yeah like you say if
it's not for a purpose or if it's not I
don't know do you think it has more of a
point like the descriptions of the
family names and how people are related
I mean I think that's part of what makes
these discussions so difficult is that
we ultimately don't know where it's
going
so you mentioned Braavos the description
of society and Braavos that's not the
last eastern society we get descriptions
of and these Eastern societies are
officer isolated from the plot in in Wes
O's you know um I thought the reason why
we were learning so much of a Provo see
society and then as Tyrion escapes
through a sauce we learn about several
other sites was because of the
significance of elections was that we
were given a kind of real-world
introduction to democracy so that
democracy doesn't seem like some perfect
ideal I mean of course if you really
understand ancient Athens ancient Athens
was not perfect but so that we have in
contrast to feudalism like okay so these
other societies and at first we just saw
them in terms of slavery
and that slavery is worse than freedom
right which you know obviously the
salted sure of ancient ancient roman in
ancient Athens
okay so slavery is a big deal but then
as the books progressed bit by bit we
find okay these people don't have a king
there are not lords and so on they have
elections and this changes the whole
society now maybe that's meaningful and
maybe it's not because we don't know
where it's going yet so you know it's
perfectly in character but I mean Tyrion
doesn't get it the actual scenes where
Tyrion is discussing democracy so I
think there in volantis but they're on
the road going east doesn't matter she's
like oh ho ho this is delightful like oh
yeah you know look at these elections
isn't this charming you know but I mean
Terenas just scoffing at it laughing at
this as opposed to having a society
where on the one hand you have people
like Jaime Lannister in power because
they're really good at killing people
Jaime Lannister and Robert Baratheon
both so the handsome physically massive
murderous aristocrat and people like you
Tyrion people who just have a name
you just have a claim to a bloodline and
have no other redeeming qualities and
are worthless in battle you know I mean
no offense if you're not gonna win any
sword fights that area but because
you're related to someone who once was
good in a battle of something you know
and you're in you push the peasants
around so I mean you know that's that's
something that could be meaningful as as
the books progress you know George is
also doing this thing that really
reflects his background in in games so
partly video games with a special
tabletop board games which he's admitted
he's doesn't done interviews about that
role-playing games but real real real
life folk playing at roping and on on on
computers where it's like he's just kind
of filling in the whole world with
details to balance out like the game or
it's like oh yeah yeah and then so these
people have fire magic so then these
other people have water magic and then
these people have this other kind of
magic
and oh yeah yeah like Oh each of the
kingdoms on the map of the Seven
Kingdoms gets gets filled in that stuff
to me seems really meaningless and
really aimless and why are you asking
the the reader to care about this yeah
yeah no I don't have any experience with
Dungeons & Dragons but it kind of
brightens like that's right so like yeah
like all the food you know that everyone
has every house has a sigil one you're
supposed to be right vaguely aware of
what each house is sigil is as you're
reading and what's the point I mean so
yeah yeah uh no he know this even if
nobody minutes it's obviously careful
reading books when the books started
being written he did not have the idea
of who was behind the weirwoods so you
know when bran gets to the north
eventually there's the Magic Man in the
tree yeah and the Magic Man in the tree
is the same guy who appears for five
minutes in the dunk and egg novels by
the way the guy at the end
Brendan rivers of Thousand Eyes and one
so it's the in ship which again it's not
that interesting I'm sorry it's not that
bigger reveal the minor killer you might
remember from the prequel to Volume one
no-shows up living in the sub-basement
of a ancient temple and the the north
beyond the wall and we got one line
which is very obvious before we thought
of that there's one line from the the
elderly maester at the wall that when he
came north
Brendan rivers came with him you know so
that's that's it that's all the
foreshadowing yeah um we have a vision
in the flames from Melisandre which
establishes that her enemy the enemy of
her religion what she's against is
brynan rivers is the the man in the tree
so I mean this is another problem I've
gotten this right okay but you still
taking your word for look in terms of
look what is the point of the religion
of roll or these books were written at a
time when America
war in Iraq and Afghanistan was a big
deal george RR martin his personal
history goes back to vietnam war
everyone knows this but obviously islam
is a big deal and the religion of war
enters the books originally the first
significance we get is that they burn
statues they burn idols it's
iconoclastic you just like islam and
they burn people you know they burn
witches at the stake and so on right
that's the initial you know significance
of this and then it shifted so who is
you know who is the great up or other or
was it fitting us well originally we
have the contrast between the kind of
catholicism of the religion of the seven
and the islam of you know the religion
of role or and maybe that meant
something and maybe that mattered maybe
that was going one direction because
george RR martin is extremely harsh
critic of religion if you don't believe
me read the different thousand world
stories I've done YouTube videos in the
past but like at this point I you know
all of that has really become pretty
pointless and aimless you know in my
opinion so so so what there were dueling
magicians now like it's just like Oh
Melisandre is working for some you know
somebody in a robe behind a you know
behind a curtain like The Wizard of Oz
somewhere there's The Wizard of Oz who's
at war with the other Wizard of Oz who's
you know behind the trees yeah I mean
it's it's it's dumb I mean it's I I feel
that's bad writing and I think it
reflects the fact that when the books
were started he will none of the stuff
he didn't really have a structure he
didn't really have a plan and I think
the next book is taking so long to write
you know whoa you know largely for those
for those reasons right because he's
trying to connect all these dots oh yes
even look even fleshing Circe's
character right even Cersei having this
memory of her childhood dream that still
haunts her going to see the
fortune-teller right that that enters a
little bit late guys I mean the bill for
that
that's right that's in feast for crows
yeah yeah it's like oh yeah right by the
way guys I have a motivation that
explains my behavior up to this point in
the future really yeah really though
it's it's not even its gate so so how
does that explain that you responded to
the death of your husband whom you hated
by trying to seduce Ned Stark like in
terms of who she was but there was no
plan there was no thought put into this
like odo no her situation is that she's
motivated by this you know you know this
this childhood experiment the shape derp
yeah I think I think that would be a
different novel you know anyway and look
I like I mean I basically am someone who
thinks the books got better as they
progressed and more interesting and I
liked the writing from Circe's
perspective and in the later books and
so on I think it raises a lot of
interesting interesting questions and
again she's a mean the middle-aged
person you know thinking about politics
[Music]
but yet you know so you may not know
this babe my girlfriend may not know
this one of the other notorious things
is that George had planned and this
isn't just at the beginning right up to
the last minute right up to feast for
crows dance with dragons his plan was to
have the plot stop and then they have a
five-year gap and then continue the plot
five years later so one of the chapters
from the winds of winter which isn't
published yet but there are individual
chapters that have been posted by the
author publicly it has Aria having quite
an active sex life so she's supposed to
be five years older right so she was
supposed to go from like 14 to 19 in the
fighters captain and that never happened
right and Jon Snow is like maybe 16 or
something in his position of political
power yeah again if there was the
five-year gap or if there were five
years that passed during which time the
Nights Watch were getting more and more
pissed off with his leadership before
he's assassinated or something like it's
hard to say where exactly in each of
those storylines the five-year gap
wouldn't
maybe the fiber guy supposed to be after
John's assess like he stays dead for
five years but this is another I'm sorry
it's just bad right in you know removing
removing the five-year gap and then all
the characters are too young for what
had been sketched out on the fly
absolutely margins of dorm the whole
emergence of door of the south into the
plot your in any perspective from dorm
right right we're not sure is to be so
and also not even in the dunk and egg
novels by the way like you don't get any
sense Thorne as an important place or
you know we're as part of the political
situation say you know oh alright
there's this other place called thorn
I'm sorry but the emergence of both
Dorne and the Iron Islands in the later
books it's it's bad writing yeah and
like all of a sudden oh yeah yeah yeah
there's this princess and she also has
really big breasts and you're supposed
to care a lot about her storyline all of
a sudden even though like her only
defining character traits or that she's
really shallow and really stubborn and
really short-sighted it really so she's
a selfish dumb [ __ ] she has no yeah
there's nothing interesting [ __ ]
none of these people have any motivation
I mean it's are any any interesting
motivation yes something that we've
talked about together is that you know I
like in this book if he's four crows
that you're now getting the perspective
of poor people yes right who are not in
positions of power right and you know
you mentioned that that's probably why
Duncan I guess interesting you these
short as opposed to just the perspective
of the most elite aristov Rasmus yeah I
think one way that he could have I mean
one way that he could have written it
differently it is focused on these same
characters in the same locations don't
introduce more places yes try to stick
to the characters that we already know
within the first three books and maybe
look at different perspectives and in
future books rather than like yeah we're
getting to know Dorne now through the
perspective of both the right you know
people in charge and and
the people are not in charge but you
know we why do we care about Dorn I mean
we've been reading for some no pages
already one oh why should we care about
Dorn what's happening with Dothraki we
have Dorn has managed to be so
insignificant to the political situation
up until now they can yeah right yeah
like I personally really like that
checkers with the wall and Johnson like
I wish we would have more perspective
and up there to not just John you know a
little bit of Sam but believe me when
you get to Old Town they're like 20 more
named characters in old town wall matter
who all are poor in their own way no
like as a writer yet were you thinking
about how can you write this up how are
you ever going to wrap this up or this
discussion is totally about the books
and not about the TV show but there's a
parallel challenge for writers which is
the art of omission so like you know
there are large parts of this story that
could be omitted and could be more
powerful that reason so you know this at
least from the TV show of TV show did a
terrible job with this but tyrion
murders his own father and then he goes
a little bit crazy areas this has a big
emotional impact on him and his
relationship with various prostitutes
it's all kind of crashing down there
okay you know what you don't need to see
that it could be way more powerful if
Tyrion murders his father and then he
re-enters the plot years later and you
just see how he's changed and you just
you know it could be in there in two
sentences and not from his perspective
it's like yeah I used to be an
aristocrat and now I'm like this
wondering you know revenant this is
what's left at me like nowhere it just
shattered him where he's just you know
he's G is devastated and you see that
devastation but no like George's way of
writing that is like here's Tyrion
getting drunk again
here's Tyrion being self pitying again
here's Tyrion going to another brothel
and sleeping with another prostitute and
another one again and it's I mean I'm
sorry but that too is bad writing
maybe that's the bad writing that that's
the easiest to ignore because people do
care about Tyrion they already have
enough invested in him but don't we
change an abacus day a week who doesn't
miss somebody goes through I mean yeah
and one of the issues that is with that
a writer oh that's a really good
question Jo sorry but you won but does
do any of the characters change as much
as they should
that's one of the issues with writing
that you need to actually have character
developing about these static characters
that are not making any changes anyway
right so yeah
no I don't so I've mentioned this to my
girlfriend before I read a book when I
was a child some of you will guess what
this book was the famous book I'm not
gonna name it
I read a book another child it's a
mainstream corporate crap paperback book
that a lot of children read and in that
book up until almost exactly the halfway
mark the main character he's motivated
by revenge and it hits the halfway mark
and he's like yes you know the time is
coming one day he's gonna get revenge
against the people who killed his
parents the people who destroyed the
village he came from his village was
destroyed was something something like
that and then there's like you know a
couple of blank pages then it's part two
and it's maybe just five years later
yeah there's something like a five year
gap but he's grown up he's a carrot all
know and for me as a kid that that
really struck me it was like whoa people
change
like when you're looking he was really
young so let's say when when you were 13
years old
you thought the most important thing on
earth was getting revenge because your
village got burnt out and now you're 23
and you're an experienced warrior and
you know a lot of people's villages have
been burnt down a lot of people are
orphans you may know and you just moved
on you have no interest in revenge on
anyone
you've got a totally immersive oh and
that and again it was a dumb corporate
kids book it's not a masterpiece it's
not consider great literature but I
remember as a kid it's like whoa
so yeah I mean seeing that kind of
character change it's obviously
something we were looking for in the TV
show even with somebody like John John
Snow again that his plot has gone
further in the TV show the boss is like
nope dying and coming back from the dead
just doesn't change you going going from
being a down on your luck bastard who
doesn't even think he's gonna survive
the next few months you know at the wall
in this crazy hopeless war badly written
war gets the wild lengths to being in a
position of tremendous power to you know
being backstabbed betrayed by your
friends and colleagues and you know no
just same old same old John you know
nothing's nothing's really changed
so yeah the the the question of whether
or not we get the character don't we we
should be beginning I would guess the
problem in the book is the five-year gap
I mean how does Aria learn to speak
Braavosi how does she change so much as
soon as she gets off the boat I think
they were supposed to be five years that
passed in there and maybe something a
little bit more a little bit more
interesting and look I mean maybe is
this I see I don't know how you feel
with these chairs or how or how many of
you done um does Jaime Lannister change
enough is he our positive example or is
he or is it or is it the same problem I
mean we really only get to know Jaime
after he's had his hand cut off right we
don't really get to know so we get to
know him later when he wait we get to
see him after he's presumably made a big
change in personality right where he's
taking on the new direction and so on
yeah yeah yeah I think so
yeah I so I really really love those
chapters the Jaime chapters on the first
reading yeah yeah but I mean you know in
the original plot for the books which
again that's been leaked so we know what
the original plot was he was basically
just the villain he was just the scenery
chomping evil villain he was the
feeder of the story yeah and so I mean
part of what's going on there is just
George spontaneously adapting and
changing bike for George that's what's
interesting about it was like okay I
started writing this guy's a villain and
now here I am kind of unpacking
different layers of them and finding
things that are things that are
redeeming or interesting or conflicted
about him yeah I was like I feel like
the character development of Sansa at
least at the point that yes just because
what she's you know what she's been
through I guess what we think she'd be
more cheated or you know rebellious in
nature by this point oh okay so you know
what I thought about mentions earlier
and I wasn't going to just cuz it's it's
past what you've read because so they're
the finished books and then there were
the leaks chapters four winds of winter
but you already know this from the TV
show and broad brushstrokes mm-hmm
Sansa is abducted by Littlefinger right
yeah and both of their motivations don't
make sense after that point yeah
if Littlefinger literally raped her
or married her or imprisoned her or used
her in a plot to take over political
power in the north that could make sense
there were kind of a million
possibilities Littlefinger literally
owns a brothel multiple brothels
he literally tortures people that have
mercilessly a Littlefinger is this
incredibly evil vindictive character and
the only soft spot he had is a sexual
obsession with santa's mother who's now
deceased that he transferred to Sansa
and he started being sexually obsessed
with Sansa from the minute he first met
her so in terms of motivation in every
way and now he's captured her in in
almost impossible circumstances he
snatches Sansa out of thing and now it
would make sense if she were literally
in Chains or if he were you know being
King make her clean make her carrying
out some plot with her or something what
he actually does with her in both book
and show makes no sense and her
relationship to him also in my opinion
uh makes no sense I mean if you even
just think about the very first step if
your little finger once you've captured
Sam
why would you take her to the veil and
reunite her with her aunt even that does
not make sense well I mean the point
would be to take over the veil which he
did in the books at least I don't write
ok ok ok but you see no that's what that
right no that's bad right but he's not
no no wait wait wait wait wait wait
that's bad right there's no way he could
be planning to murder his wife will you
know that's a totally spontaneous
ridiculous situation there's no way he
can be planning to murder his wife
within like two days of getting married
within a couple of days of getting
married and to carry out the ridiculous
spontaneous plot that happens to take
over the veil there's no way that can be
his plan at that point and even if he
was gonna go back to cement the marriage
to her and you know gain some kind of
status in the veil by bringing Sansa
there you know he's put he's putting her
into the clutches of a crazy woman who
knows who she really is and who has
power over him and power over Sansa and
can prevent him from marrying or having
sex and Sansa who can destroy all of his
plans all this short term and long term
plans yeah and again he's he's a brothel
keeper there were other things Jane pool
a minor character or is you know raped
and brutalized and turned into a
prostitute and then later sold to Ramsay
Bolton as Ramsay Bolton bride of the
Jeyne Poole's subplot
but I mean it in every way this is this
ruthless cold guy I mean even if even if
he kept Sansa locked up somewhere else
when he went to the Vale that would move
so everything why why do the different
steps happen the plot that's absolutely
you know all there is to it
with with him I mean there you know if
what he wants is what he wanted in book
one it's you know it's not even really
clear why he'd go to the Vale at all he
could do almost anything you know at
that stage yeah so just see to me that's
that's bad writing on the big strategic
level and then also I mean who is Sansa
and how does she feel of a little set
finger and what does she want and once
what's her situation that does not make
a whole
what a sense either you know you could
write San says just a week paying basket
case you like just make her someone
who's just totally overwhelmed by these
situations but like oh sorry like five
minutes ago you were married to the king
well gonna be married to the king and
then that was canceled that finally you
were married to the wealthiest man in
Westeros Tyrion Lannister and like you
know I mean he's a dwarf but he's still
dealing you know being married to a
multi-millionaire in our in our times
and so you know I mean there are all
these you know vicissitudes she goes
through and yeah what happens next with
her doesn't make a lot of sense
strategically or in terms of character
analysis yeah yeah oh and just brings to
mind so many different things in the
plot like yeah that haven't been results
I mean maybe maybe they have writer on
like knows we're killing it who killed
Joffrey you know like a little figure
know to be there when okay so we do know
because of this okay well if Jake if you
think Littlefinger planned it if you
think he conspired to plan it then he
knew when to be there because he's
guilty because he's implicated it right
so let me sing with that's the
conclusion most people come to you with
the plot to kill Bram but then it is
that Littlefinger must have been
responsible for it because otherwise
nothing makes sense and the other
explanation is it's just really badly
written so you know that if Littlefinger
didn't orchestrate that you know yeah it
also seems to convenient to plot to put
all these major plot points on a little
finger like this is his fault that's
because he compensates for bad writing
okay so look that you know whose apparel
that is is Ramsay Bolton all right sorry
this is another straight-up bad writing
thing sir sir being a little finger-like
one of the reveals is oh the letter
written from Lysa to Catelyn to start
the war was because of Littlefinger
because it's in Littlefinger's interest
to start this war no it's just bad
writing oh yeah a little floppy mental
okay that makes sense cuz otherwise
nothing makes sense all right moving on
Ramsay Bolton telepathic mastermind
Ramsay volt is like oh by the way I have
this disguise you're ready to go look he
meets Theon like oh my name is reek I
have this other identity later on no
it's not I'm secretly Ramsay Bolton well
I thought this plan will murder these
two boys on the farm and do this thing
is series of plot points there what's
like if Ramsay Bolton is not telepathic
yes see the future super 18 yes nothing
he's doing makes sense and that
continues right it continues not making
sense
Ramsay Bolton's plot so there are people
who read the books like oh yeah no it's
like Ramsay is certain is like secretly
a green seer like you can see the
futures I know it's just bad writing
I think step by step everything that
happened when Ramsay is is badly written
and it's just like Oh George is an
award-winning award-winning horror
writer and that had to come out at some
point so you know Timmy that seems
totally you know improvised the point
where wreath goes away to get help and
then reek comes back with an army
because he was Caesar Lee Ramsay Bolton
all day nothing about this made sense
damn ex machina and also you know the TV
show does a good job with that where you
know Aria disguises herself as a
commoner but a Tyrion can tell she's not
really he says you know you don't talk
like a commoner like okay so Ramsay
Bolton raised by the second most
powerful and wealthy house in the north
blah blah blah we know it's old
background like oh yeah nobody can guess
that you're not you know reek you know
and nobody else around it acts like this
is weird or really
it's just bad writing so yeah okay then
go I mean look guys the if you look at
them as a whole the a Song of Ice and
Fire books are a flawed masterpiece I
think they're called a masterpiece for a
reason
but they are a badly flawed masterpiece
and nobody wants to go back and fix the
errors in the more than george RR martin
himself I think he knows that I think he
I think he's really burdened by that and
that's part of why the
novels are being written is so that the
novels can start with something that's
written where he's already aware of the
ending including like oh yeah there's
the Blackfyre rebellion and the war of
the sixpenny kings and all this other
stuff about the political situation and
what was going on in King's Landing a
hundred years before the plot started
you know like what you know all this
stuff he made up later that that isn't
there in the first two or even three
books we're never to go back and and
rewrite the beginning the genesis of the
pawn action alright well anyone who's
watched the TV show whose line is it
anyway we'll get this game of Thrones is
like the book where everything's made up
and the points don't matter but I'm
gonna continue reading it I forget I
mean I'm really in the fourth book and I
saw a lot to go well if you guys ever
take the time to read George RR Martin's
thousand world books what he's really
strong on his sentiment is writing a
story around a sentiment around like
just a feeling is what the story is
supposed to evoke and you know he really
was kind of an early proponent of idea
driven short storytelling and really the
only ones I can remember that were any
good they were basically just
anti-religion stuff like seven times
never killed man a song for Ally aware
was critique of of religion and you know
he really challenged himself with this I
feel that these books are in many ways a
response to the malaise of American
imperialism in his lifetime in the last
twenty thirty years that American
democracy has lost its appeal American
the American Empire the endless wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan and his own
memories of the Vietnam War and stuff
and up see it's nothing he's against
democracy he don't get me wrong but I
think he's wrestling with you know a lot
of these questions and it I think it
evokes those sentiments powerfully you
know a lot of this stuff and there is
other stuff there I mean there's a lot
of stuff in here about being fat there's
a lot of stuff about wrestling with your
own sexuality even Jamie Lannister
dealing with his own celibacy and stuff
there
there are other themes there are things
that come up and they work as kind of
isolated sentiments story by story yeah
as the books progress but there is a lot
wrong with it and I think exactly his
trick of having a last minute fix
written in like oh it was little finger
along oh it was vari so long worries all
along his motivation was to plot a
restoration of the Blackfyre dynasty the
black fire dust he hadn't even been
thought of during the writing of the
first three books like oh yeah yeah
we've added this in so varis as a motive
no sir but you guys remember back in
book one and even the first couple
scenes of the TV show var eases
motivation was supposed to be that he
was passionately opposed to black magic
or post a magic in general but also the
whole bright storylines Stannis
represented magic and his reason for
opposing Stannis was that Stannis would
bring bring back magic and religious
fundamentalism so that was interesting
was varies representing secularism and
science and Stannis representing magic
and frankly Islam okay that's a coffin
now what's as far as represent oh I
haven't seen him in forever okay so you
know you've got oh yeah well there was
this war like decades and decades ago
and there's this other line of House
Targaryen called the black fires and
there's this secret plot and and that
will work out better because yeah
because reasons and he was secretly
planning it all along it's lame all
right look George is at this point the
highest-paying survey the highest-paid
non-productive author in the world he's
being given millions of dollars to write
this book the winds of winter that he to
say he's behind schedule is is an
understatement and we will see it's it's
you know a complement to the guy to say
that he has big shoes to fill
because he created those shoes himself
the shoes from the feel that he created
himself but on the other hand I think a
lot of us
now read these books two and three times
whenever I think a lot of us our
expectations are low Rx I think what a
lot of us are expecting to be
disappointed the obviously the TV show
is disappointed us all what's gonna
happen when John snow gets up off that
stone slab you know when it's
resurrected I don't think he has
anything meaningful to tell us I don't
think Voorhies has anything meaningful
cause I think the philosophy of Voorhies
and Littlefinger and Jon Snow has
already been exhausted
if these novels and it's what what
keeping something really fascinating
brewing and safe was coming from Dawn
I don't yeah so yeah I'm I'm still
reading I'm still hoping I'm still
listening to podcast talking about this
stuff it's been a very evocative very
inspiring series of novels for me
but sadly there's just enough bad
writing that that in terms of what I
expect to come next my expectations are
low five